= Reference:File Format

:toc:

== [#Accessing_GeoGebra_files]#Accessing GeoGebra files#

A GeoGebra file is ending with `++.ggb++` (GeoGebra worksheet) or `++.ggt++` (GeoGebra tool), which are both just
renamed `++.zip++` files. You can easily open them with a ZIP program of your choice by renaming them to .zip and open
them as you would open any `++.zip++` file.

== [#Contents]#Contents#

=== [#.ggb_-_GeoGebra_Worksheet]#.ggb - GeoGebra Worksheet#

The `++.ggb++` file is the standard way to save GeoGebra worksheets. As stated above this file is just a renamed
`++.zip++` file. If you rename your `++.ggb++` to `++.zip++` you will find the following files after unzipping:

==== [#geogebra.xml]#geogebra.xml#

This is the file in which all the information about the construction is stored, the information is stored in
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xml[XML]. For more information about the contents and structure of this file see the
/Reference:Xml.adoc[XML reference].

==== [#geogebra_thumbnail.png]#geogebra_thumbnail.png#

This image contains a small preview image of the construction saved in the `++geogebra.xml++`. GeoGebra itself uses this
image for the preview of GeoGebra files in the "Open.." and "Save As.." Dialog. This thumbnail could also be used to
display previews of GeoGebra files within the operating systems file explorer or could be used by online systems or any
other kind of software to display previews of uploaded GeoGebra files.

=== [#geogebra.js]#geogebra.js#

This file contains global JavaScript definitions used in the file. See xref:/Scripting.adoc[Scripting] for details.

==== [#images]#images#

Images used in the construction (included using the GeoGebra
/File:Tool_Insert_Image_gif.adoc[image:Tool_Insert_Image.gif[Tool Insert
Image.gif,width=32,height=32]]xref:/Image_Tool.adoc[Image Tool]) or as icons of custom tools are not stored with
human-readable filenames, but can easily copied and renamed to be extracted out of GeoGebra files. If there are no
images or custom tools in the `++.ggb++` there will be just the `++geogebra.xml++` and `++geogebra_thumbnail.png++` in
the `++.ggb++`.

=== [#.ggt_-_GeoGebra_Tool]#.ggt - GeoGebra Tool#

The `++.ggt++` files use the same technique for storage as the `++.ggb++` files, so renaming and unzipping will reveal
the following files:

==== [#geogebra_macro.xml]#geogebra_macro.xml#

This http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xml[XML] stores the main information about the tool. As custom tools are also stored
in the normal `++.ggb++` files the structure of the entries in this files are also explained in the
/Reference:Xml.adoc[XML reference].

==== [#images_2]#images#

If there is any special icon assigned to this tool this icon is stored in a sub-folder. Be aware that both the icon and
the sub-folder have names not intended to be read by humans, so don't try to make some sense out of it.

== [#Modifying_the_files]#Modifying the files#

Modifying `++.ggb++` or `++.ggt++` files (namely the `++.xml++` files within them) is clearly a task for the most
tech-savvy users of GeoGebra. Whether you want to touch the `++.xml++` because you want to modify something which can't
be modified by GeoGebra at the moment, like the definition of a custom tool, or you want to trick GeoGebra or just
experiment you should take some tips for your journey:

. Backup your files. It's almost certain that you will break your files sometime if you're modifying the XML definition.
. Read the /Reference:Xml.adoc[XML reference] to understand what you are doing.
. Be aware that the changes you've made may be lost if you re-save your file within GeoGebra. While it might be possible
that GeoGebra understands something unusual while loading it might not save it at all or save it somehow anormal which
corrupts the file.
. ZIP all required files at the end using the most standard ZIP options (no encryption etc.) and rename your files back
to `++.ggb++`.
